Raw text from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H._R._McMaster
Extracted 21. Feb, 2017


H. R. McMaster
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
H. R. McMaster
H.R. McMaster ARCIC 2014.jpg
National Security Advisor
Taking office
February 2017
President	Donald Trump
Deputy	K. T. McFarland
Succeeding	Keith Kellogg (Acting)
Personal details
Born	Herbert Raymond McMaster
July 24, 1962 (age 54)
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.
Spouse(s)	Kathleen Trotter (1985–present)
Military service
Nickname(s)	The Iconoclast General
Allegiance	United States
Service/branch	 United States Army
Years of service	1984–present
Rank	Army-USA-OF-08.svg Lieutenant general
Commands	Eagle Troop, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
1st Squadron, 4th Cavalry Regiment
3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment
Concept Development and Experimentation Directorate, Army Capabilities Integration Center
Joint Anti-Corruption Task Force (Shafafiyat), International Security Assistance Force
Maneuver Center of Excellence
Army Capabilities Integration Center
Battles/wars	Persian Gulf War
 • Battle of 73 Easting
War on Terror
 • Iraq War
 • War in Afghanistan
Awards	Army Distinguished Service Medal
Silver Star
Defense Superior Service Medal
Legion of Merit (2)
Bronze Star (2)
Purple Heart Medal
Defense Meritorious Service Medal (2)
Army Meritorious Service Medal (5)
Joint Service Commendation Medal
Army Commendation Medal (4)
Army Achievement Medal (4)
Herbert Raymond "H. R." McMaster (born July 24, 1962)[1] is a United States Army lieutenant general and the current National Security Advisor to United States President Donald Trump. His current military assignment is Director of the Army Capabilities Integration Center, and Deputy Commanding General, Futures, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command.
McMaster's prior assignments include Commanding General, Ft. Benning Maneuver Center of Excellence, and Director of the Combined Joint Interagency Task Force-Shafafiyat at the International Security Assistance Force Headquarters in Kabul, Afghanistan. He is known for his roles in the Gulf War, Operation Enduring Freedom, and Operation Iraqi Freedom. McMaster authored the book Dereliction of Duty in 1997, which criticized the actions of high ranking U.S. military leadership during the Vietnam War.
Contents  [hide] 
1	Early life and education
1.1	Dereliction of Duty (book)
2	Career
2.1	Company grade officer
2.2	Field grade officer
2.3	General officer
2.4	National Security Advisor
3	Decorations and badges
4	Notes and citations
5	Further reading
6	External links
Early life and education[edit]
McMaster was born in Philadelphia in 1962.[2] He went to high school at Valley Forge Military Academy, graduating in 1980. He earned a commission as a second lieutenant upon graduating from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1984. McMaster earned a Master of Arts and Ph.D. in American history from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). His thesis was critical of American strategy in the Vietnam War, which was further detailed in his 1997 book Dereliction of Duty.[3]
Dereliction of Duty (book)[edit]
Main article: Dereliction of Duty (1997 book)
Dereliction of Duty: Lyndon Johnson, Robert McNamara, The Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies that Led to Vietnam is a book written by McMaster that explores the military's role in the policies of the Vietnam War. The book was written as part of his Ph.D. dissertation at UNC. It harshly criticized high-ranking officers of that era, arguing that they inadequately challenged Defense Secretary Robert McNamara and President Lyndon Johnson on their Vietnam strategy. The book examines McNamara and Johnson's staff alongside the Joint Chiefs of Staff and other high ranking military officers, and their failure to provide a successful plan of action either to pacify a Viet Cong insurgency or to decisively defeat the North Vietnamese Army. McMaster also details why military actions intended to indicate "resolve" or to "communicate" ultimately failed when trying to accomplish sparsely detailed, confusing, and conflicting military objectives. The book was widely read in Pentagon circles and included in military reading lists.
Career[edit]
Company grade officer[edit]
His first assignment after commissioning was to the 2nd Armored Division at Fort Hood, where he served in a variety of platoon and company level leadership assignments with 1st Battalion 66th Armor Regiment. In 1989, McMaster was assigned to the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment at Warner Barracks in Bamberg, Germany, where he served until 1992, including deployment to Operation Desert Storm.
During the Gulf War in 1991 he was a captain commanding Eagle Troop of the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment at the Battle of 73 Easting.[4] During that battle, though significantly outnumbered and encountering the enemy by surprise as McMaster's lead tank crested a dip in the terrain, the nine tanks of Eagle Troop destroyed over eighty Iraqi Republican Guard tanks and other vehicles without loss, due to the Abrams tank being state-of-the-art armored technology while the Iraqi equipment included grossly outdated T-62s and T-72s of the Soviet era as well as similarly dated Type 69s of Chinese manufacture.[5]
McMaster was awarded the Silver Star. The battle features in several books about Desert Storm and is widely referred to in US Army training exercises. It also receives coverage in Tom Clancy's 1994 popular non-fiction book Armored Cav.[5] McMaster served as a military history professor at West Point from 1994 to 1996, teaching among other things the battles in which he fought. He graduated from the United States Army Command and General Staff College in 1999.[6]
Field grade officer[edit]
From 1999 to 2002, McMaster commanded 1st Squadron, 4th Cavalry Regiment, and then took a series of staff positions at U.S. Central Command (USCENTCOM), including planning and operations roles in Iraq.
In his next job, as lieutenant colonel and later colonel, McMaster worked on the staff of USCENTCOM as executive officer to Deputy Commander Lieutenant General John Abizaid. When Abizaid received four-star rank and became Central Command's head, McMaster served as Director, Commander's Advisory Group (CAG), described as the command's brain trust.
In 2003 McMaster completed an Army War College research fellowship at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.
In 2004, he was assigned to command the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment (3rd ACR). Shortly after McMaster took command the regiment deployed for its second tour in Iraq and was assigned the mission of securing the city of Tal Afar. That mission culminated in September with Operation Restoring Rights and the defeat of the city's insurgent strongholds. President Bush praised this success, and the PBS show Frontline broadcast a documentary in February 2006 featuring interviews with McMaster. CBS' 60 Minutes produced a similar segment in July,[7] and the operation was the subject of an article in the April 10, 2006, issue of The New Yorker.
Author Tim Harford has written that the pioneering tactics employed by 3rd ACR led to the first success in overcoming the Iraqi insurgency. Prior to 2005, tactics included staying out of dangerous urban areas except on patrols, with US forces returning to their bases each night. These patrols had little success in turning back the insurgency because local Iraqis who feared retaliation would very rarely assist in identifying them to US forces. McMaster deployed his soldiers into Tal Afar on a permanent basis, and once the local population grew confident that they weren't going to withdraw nightly, the citizens began providing information on the insurgents, enabling US forces to target and defeat them.[5][8]
McMaster passed command of the 3rd ACR on June 29, 2006 and joined the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, as a Senior Research Associate with a mandate described as "conduct[ing] research to identify opportunities for improved multi-national cooperation and political-military integration in the areas of counterinsurgency, counter-terrorism, and state building", and to devise "better tactics to battle terrorism."[9]
From August 2007 to August 2008 McMaster was part of an "elite team of officers advising US commander" General David Petraeus on counterinsurgency operations while Petraeus directed revision of the Army's Counterinsurgency Field Manual during his command of the Combined Arms Center.[10] Petraeus and most of his team were stationed in Fort Leavenworth at the time but McMaster collaborated remotely, according to senior team member John Nagl.[5][8]
General officer[edit]
McMaster was passed over for promotion to Brigadier General in 2006 and 2007, despite his reputation as one of "the most celebrated soldiers of the Iraq War."[11] Though the Army's rationale for whether a given officer is selected or not selected is not made public, McMaster's initial non-selection attracted media attention.[12][13][14] However, in late 2007, Secretary of the Army Pete Geren requested General David Petraeus to return from Iraq to take charge of the promotion board as a way to ensure that the best performers in combat received every consideration for advancement, resulting in McMaster's selection along with other Colonels who had been identified as innovative thinkers.[5][15] McMaster's name was subsequently released on the promotion list for Brigadier General in 2008.[13]
In August 2008, McMaster assumed duties as Director, Concept Development and Experimentation (later renamed Concept Development and Learning), in the Army Capabilities Integration Center (ARCIC) at Fort Monroe, Virginia, part of U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command. In this position McMaster was involved in preparing doctrine to guide the Army over the next ten to twenty years. He was promoted on June 29, 2009.[16] In July 2010 he was selected to be the J-5, Deputy to the Commander for Planning, at ISAF (International Security Assistance Forces) Headquarters in Kabul, Afghanistan. Additionally, McMaster directed a joint anti-corruption task force (CJIATF-Shafafiyat) at ISAF Headquarters.[citation needed]

McMaster as commander of the Maneuver Center of Excellence in 2012.
McMaster was nominated for Major General on January 23, 2012 and selected to be the commander of the Army's Maneuver Center of Excellence at Ft. Benning.[17] McMaster took the position in June 2012 and was promoted accordingly on August 2, 2012.[citation needed] In February 2014, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel nominated McMaster for Lieutenant General and in July 2014, McMaster pinned on his third star when he began his duties as Deputy Commanding General of the Training and Doctrine Command and Director of TRADOC's Army Capabilities Integration Center.[18]
Army Chief of Staff General Martin Dempsey remarked in 2011 that McMaster was "probably our best Brigadier General."[19] McMaster made Time's list of the 100 most influential people in the world in April 2014. He was hailed as "the architect of the future U.S. Army" in the accompanying piece written by retired Lt. Gen. Dave Barno, who commanded U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005. "Major General Herbert Raymond McMaster might be the 21st century Army's pre-eminent warrior-thinker," Barno wrote, commenting on McMaster's "impressive command and unconventional exploits in the second Iraq war."[20] Barno also stated, "Recently tapped for his third star, H.R. is also the rarest of soldiers—one who has repeatedly bucked the system and survived to join its senior ranks."[21] In 2014, retired Army Gen. Jack Keane, a former Army vice chief, commented "It is heartening to see the Army reward such an extraordinary general officer who is a thought leader and innovator while also demonstrating sheer brilliance as a wartime brigade commander."[22]
National Security Advisor[edit]
On February 20, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump named McMaster to serve as his National Security Advisor following the forced resignation of Michael T. Flynn on February 13.[23][24][25] McMaster "intends to remain on active duty while he serves as national security adviser."[26] Senator John McCain, the Armed Services Committee chairman, commented "I have had the honor of knowing [McMaster] for many years, and he is a man of genuine intellect, character, and ability."[27]
Decorations and badges[edit]
U.S. military decorations
Distinguished Service Medal ribbon.svg
Army Distinguished Service Medal
Silver Star ribbon.svg
Silver Star
US Defense Superior Service Medal ribbon.svg
Defense Superior Service Medal
Bronze oak leaf cluster
Legion of Merit with Oak leaf cluster
Bronze oak leaf cluster
Bronze Star with Oak leaf cluster
Purple Heart BAR.svg
Purple Heart
Bronze oak leaf cluster
Defense Meritorious Service Medal with Oak leaf cluster
Bronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf cluster
Meritorious Service Medal with four Oak leaf clusters

Joint Service Commendation Medal
Bronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf cluster
Army Commendation Medal with three Oak leaf clusters
Bronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf clusterBronze oak leaf cluster
Army Achievement Medal with three Oak leaf clusters
U.S. service (campaign) medals and service and training ribbons
Bronze star
National Defense Service Medal with one service star
Bronze starBronze starBronze star
Southwest Asia Service Medal with three service stars
Afghanistan Campaign Medal ribbon.svg
Afghanistan Campaign Medal
Bronze starBronze star
Iraq Campaign Medal with two service stars
Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary ribbon.svg
Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal ribbon.svg
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal
Army Service Ribbon.svg
Army Service Ribbon

Army Overseas Service Ribbon
Foreign decorations
NATO Medal Active Endeavour ribbon bar.svg
NATO Medal
Kuwait Liberation Medal (Saudi Arabia) ribbon.svg
Kuwait Liberation Medal (Saudi Arabia)
Kuwait Liberation Medal (Kuwait) ribbon.svg
Kuwait Liberation Medal (Kuwait)
U.S. badges, patches and tabs
Combat Action Badge.svg	Combat Action Badge
US Army Airborne basic parachutist badge.gif	Parachutist Badge
Ranger Tab.svg	Ranger Tab
USA - 3rd Calvary DUI.png	3d Armored Cavalry Regiment distinctive unit insignia
3dACRSSI.PNG	3d Armored Cavalry Regiment combat service identification badge
Former War Time Service (SSI-FWTS)
Multi-National Force-Iraq ShoulderSIeeveInsignia.jpg	Multi-National Force – Iraq combat service identification badge
Former War Time Service (SSI-FWTS)
USFOR-A Shoulder Insignia.jpg	United States Forces – Afghanistan combat service identification badge
Former War Time Service (SSI-FWTS)
TRADOC patch.svg	United States Army Training and Doctrine Command shoulder sleeve insignia
U.S. orders
StetsonHatFortHoodArmy.jpg	Order of the Spur Cavalry Hat and Spurs (Gold)
Notes and citations[edit]
Jump up ^ Clancy, Tom (1994). Armored Cav: A Guided Tour of an Armored Cavalry Regiment. New York, NY: Berkley Books. p. 255. ISBN 978-0-425-15836-4.
Jump up ^ Lucey, Catherine (February 20, 2017). "PRES. TRUMP PICKS PHILADELPHIA NATIVE ARMY LT. GEN. H.R. MCMASTER AS NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER". Associated Press. Retrieved February 20, 2017.
Jump up ^ Spector, Ronald (July 20, 1997). "Cooking Up a Quagmire". New York Times. Retrieved February 20, 2017.
Jump up ^ "M1a1 Abrams Tanks in action Iraq-73 Easting".
^ Jump up to: a b c d e Tim Harford (2011). Adapt: Why Success Always Starts with Failure. Little, Brown. pp. 46–56 , 61 ,72–74 , 77–78. ISBN 1-4087-0152-9.
Jump up ^ WLA: War, Literature & the Arts, Volume 11. Colorado Springs, CO: U.S. Air Force Academy. 1999. p. 230.
Jump up ^ "Tal Afar: Al Qaeda's Town". CBS News.
^ Jump up to: a b Tim Harford (May 23, 2011). "Lessons from war's factory floor". The Financial Times. Retrieved August 2, 2011.
Jump up ^ International Institute for Strategic Studies – H.R. McMaster. Retrieved 2007-09-02.
Jump up ^ Tisdall, Simon. Military chiefs give US six months to win Iraq War. The Guardian. 2007-02-28. Retrieved 2007-09-02.
Jump up ^ Kaplan, Fred (August 26, 2007), "Challenging the Generals", New York Times, retrieved September 2, 2007
Jump up ^ "Col. McMaster". CBS News.
^ Jump up to: a b Fred Kaplan, Slate.com, Annual General Meeting: Finally, the Army is Promoting the Right Officers, August 4, 2008
Jump up ^ Blake Hounshell, Foreign Policy magazine, McMaster Gets His Star, July 16, 2008
Jump up ^ Ann Scott Tyson, "Army's Next Crop of Generals Forged in Counterinsurgency", Washington Post, May 15, 2008
Jump up ^ Hoover Institution, H.R. McMaster promoted to brigadier general in the U.S. Army, August 15, 2009
Jump up ^ U.S. Army News Release, McMaster Tapped for Promotion, Command of Benning, April 4, 2012
Jump up ^ Amy L. Haviland, U.S. Army, McMaster to Lead Development of Future Force, July 16, 2014
Jump up ^ Ricks, Thomas E. (July 27, 2011). "Dempsey on Two Big Lessons of Iraq: Think More and Train Leaders Better". Foreign Policy.
Jump up ^ Military Times, Gen. McMaster makes Time's '100 most influential', April 25, 2014
Jump up ^ Barno, Dave (April 23, 2014). "Major General Herbert Raymond McMaster". Time. Retrieved February 20, 2017.
Jump up ^ Bill Gertz, Washington Free Beacon, Iconoclast Army General to Get Third Star: Army Maj. Gen. H.R. McMaster Receives Promotion, February 18, 2014
Jump up ^ "Sean Spicer on Twitter".
Jump up ^ "Trump Selects Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster as National Security Adviser". Fox News. February 20, 2017. Retrieved February 20, 2017.
Jump up ^ "Trump Names Lt Gen HR McMaster as National Security Adviser". BBC News. February 20, 2017. Retrieved February 20, 2017.
Jump up ^ Talev, Margaret (February 20, 2017). "Trump Picks Outspoken Army `Rebel' as National Security Adviser". Retrieved 21 February 2017.
Jump up ^ Diamond, Jeremy. "Trump picks Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster as new national security adviser". CNN. Retrieved 21 February 2017.
Further reading[edit]
Tom Clancy, Armored Cav, 1994, Putnam Adult, ISBN 978-0399140549
External links[edit]
	Wikimedia Commons has media related to H. R. McMaster.
	Wikiquote has quotations related to: H. R. McMaster
	Biography portal
	United States Army portal
"H.R. McMaster: The Warrior's-Eye View of Afghanistan", Wall Street Journal interview May 11, 2012
Online Video of Frontline program The Insurgency, see part 4.
Nov 2003 Crack in the Foundation: Defense Transformation and the Underlying Assumption of Dominant Knowledge in Future War, H.R. McMaster (PDF)
Hoover Institution bio
Appearances on C-SPAN
Political offices
Preceded by
Keith Kellogg
Acting	National Security Advisor
Designate
Taking office in 2017	Incumbent
[show] v t e
Assistants to the President for National Security Affairs
[show] v t e
Executive Office of the President – Trump Administration
Authority control	
WorldCat Identities VIAF: 116416531 ISNI: 0000 0001 1085 4219 SUDOC: 058498559
Categories: 1962 birthsAmerican people of Scotch-Irish descentAmerican male writersAmerican military historiansAmerican military personnel of the Iraq WarAmerican military personnel of the War in Afghanistan (2001–2014)Living peopleMilitary personnel from PhiladelphiaRecipients of the Bronze Star MedalRecipients of the Defense Superior Service MedalRecipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (United States)Recipients of the Legion of MeritRecipients of the Silver StarTank personnelUnited States Army Command and General Staff College alumniUnited States Army generalsUnited States Military Academy alumniUnited States National Security AdvisorsUniversity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill alumni
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog inArticleTalkReadEditView historySearch

Search Wikipedia
Go
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia store
Interaction
Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact page
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Cite this page
Print/export
Create a book
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikiquote
Languages
العربية
Deutsch
فارسی
Français
עברית
Русский
Simple English
Svenska
Українська
Edit links
This page was last modified on 21 February 2017, at 16:58.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaDevelopersCookie statementMobile viewWikimedia Foundation Powered by MediaWiki
